---
layout: post
title: Fantastic!
---

##Reading fantasy has always made me feel good.

A friend of mine recently said that human beings have not survived because we are aware of things, but because we ignore things. We are talented in the art of self deception, and it is this talent that has kept our species alive. If we can ignore the crushing odds against us, we can muster the strength to fight against them, or at least the strength to bull forward in ignorance of the likelihood of our imminent death. If we can imagine that the darkness isn't full of teeth, we can get a sound night's sleep. I personally think he's right, thought I would not have put quite the derisive tone on the phrase that he did. Human beings may be stupid, but dammit I'm proud of them. Us. You know what I mean.

Seen through that revelation, George RR Martin and JRR Tolkein are defenders of the human race. Stephen King too, but less so. He doesn't have enough initials. I understand that others may not find their works so enthralling. Different strokes for different folks, and all. I'm of the opinion that they are paragons of virtue, but a different person could get the same net effect from a book on adding a human element to sales or a self-help book touting mindfulness and intimate contact with God. 

I'll leave the debate about bad-touching deities for another day. For now, accept for a moment that all of these things are a similar coping mechanisms for the overwhelming enormity of human existence. Moreover, we seek out these coping mechanisms by instinct. My father once told me that he believed he pursuit of god to be a core human trait. [Sir Terry Pratchett](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Pratchett) put it more glibly: ["Whoever had created humanity had left in a major design flaw. It was its tendency to bend at the knees."](http://www.amazon.com/Feet-Clay-Discworld-Terry-Pratchett/dp/0062275518/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1437619116&sr=8-1&keywords=feet+of+clay). He's speaking here of a fascination with monarchy, but the menaing maps nicely.

The source from which you draw your distraction isn't all that important, in the end, nor is the subjective evaluation of its truth. It doesn't much matter if you think my fantasy novel is cheap populist trash, just as it doesn't much matter if I view slavish adherence to a book about a sky wizard that took anywhere between six and twelve major civilizations the better part of a millenium to write just a bit silly. Either way, we've wrapped a nice squishy cushion of idea around our brains, existential airbags on an accident-prone stretch of cosmic highway. My friend is right: we are functional as a species because we are spectacularly distractable. That's not a sin, in my mind. It means we are very, very well adapted to the tremendous danger inherent in consciousness. We are, after all, a very small and short-lived creature in a very large universe. 

And that is why, almost everywhere I go, I keep my kindle or a book next to the bed. Sometimes you wake right up at 3am and have to put a pressure release valve in your brain.