---
layout: post
title: Image
---

##There is no authentic L.A. experience

####And this is not a slight on L.A.

I've only spent 48 hours in Los Angeles so far. Time spent sitting in the Virgin America gate-hub doesn't count. A [favorite author](http://www.nealstephenson.com/snow-crash.html) of mine once described L.A. as confused. It didn't know whether to bustle or strangle itself. It is a pithy description, and one that I was content to accept until I met the 'burg. Perhaps it has changed since [**Snow Crash**](http://www.amazon.com/Snow-Crash-Bantam-Spectra-Book/dp/0553380958/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1430105446&sr=8-1&keywords=snow+crash) was written, but at the moment I think it is less confused.

It has turned bustle up to eleven.

L.A. is purely an image. That is, after all, a large part of what makes the city a place to be. Hollywood, the principal export of which is fantastic images made powerful by force of will. The city as a whole is excellent at taking a picture and pushing so much effort and belief into it that it becomes real.

It becomes authentic. Authentic artifice.

I was at a studio lot for the event this weekend. The event itself was held on a small suburban street carefully built to look like an average tree-lined street in what people imagine is middle america. Main street's doppleganger is surrounded by stages and studios, each of which is filled with and emptied of a particular reality with well-oiled speed on a regular basis. 

As my coworker and I were driving off the lot after the event, I saw an NYPD shield eblazoned at the end of an alley. It was splashed across a rollup metal door in a brick wall. Late on a saturday night it was pure fiction, but during the day it might be believed-in enough to become real. Clap if you believe in procedural cop dramas. The Big Apple with wings and a hatred for all things Wendy.

It was precisely real and not real, all at the same time. It was built for the specific purpose of creating something real to the viewer, that when it is watched seems real enough that it isn't actively questioned.

Authentic lack of authenticity. 

Which is the way L.A. should be. I say again that this is no slight on the city. It does what it is meant to do. I wonder, however, if particular syndrome doesn't have a few side effects. One of the first things that struck me when I walked downtown is that L.A. has a homeless problem. 

Homeless problem isn't an adequate, or even a very pleasant term. It doesn't describe the scope of the issue or the sheer human cost. In this case it is especially insufficient. Wandering angry voices driven by minds seemingly out of touch with the goings on around them, or perhaps just not giving a damn about what reality is telling them. Who can blame them. I saw more angry people in the two hours I spent in the core of LA than I have in a year in Boston. I'll admit that Cambridge and Arlington are relatively upscale, and spending most of my time there I don't see much of Boston's homeless population, but the impression was still strong.

The problem here seems more pointed, simply because like the city itself the plethora of vagrant lives is an image, invested with a will by the rest of the city. It's part of the eccentricity of L.A., and confusingly so. It seems that here the people living in the margins and spaces of the city are even further out, or further down, and further disturbed by their placement than in other cities I've visited.

And I have an hypothesis. L.A. isn't really a home. There are homes in it, and people obviously take great pride in their homes. There are upscale neighborhoods and downtrodden neighborhoods and some in between. None of it feels of the same kind. None of it feels cohesive, and maybe the distance between the different spaces, between one end of the scale and another, is what allows people to fall so far and burn out so hard. That's the hypothesis, anyways. I'm not going to be here long enough to test it. 

Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm reacting to a weekend that has left me exhausted and covered in a smoggy sensation. Maybe there's a beautiful core to the city, an identity full of strength and power. I've been wrong before.

My coworker, soon to be a Los Angelesian, pointed out that every conversation with an L.A. friend or friends inevitably turned back to one of the starlets and their absolutely *fascinating* personal lives. For now, at least, that's evidence enough for me. This city has an image, and it burns a lot of people's belief to keep it shining.