---
layout: post
title: Outrage
---

##There are a great many things that inspire me to outrage.

I am not unique in this. There has been a tremendous uproar recently about the Paris bombings, with many people outraged. Media focus on European tragedies over Middle-Eastern &c. tragedies has generated an opposing or augmented outrage. Some are outraged that something over there is distracating from serious things right here, and others are outraged that They are out to undermine Us, a general sentiment shared by many particular groups. 

###In the face of all this outrage, it is worth asking whether or not the outrage is really necessary

There are injustices Here and There, and to conquer them we must be moved to action. Anger, Passion and Fervor are fantastic motivating forces, and even if your movement is non-violent, a little bit of violent emotion can go a long way. 

Outrage is none of these things, or rather, outrage has ceased to be these things. Outrage seems to stop at the water's edge. We are outraged and seem to feel that this is enough. We express that outrage to like-minded people in our sphere of influence, or people who are like-minded enough that they will not object to our outrage, and then the outrage is out of us. 

Perhaps one or two facebook arguments will result, and perhaps we'll be motivated to donate money, but for what seems a majority of people it ends there.

###We can still use that outrage as a gateway

Letting that first response of indignation and shock be a spark, leading us to go out and do more, to be present and to give voice or expression to rage and anger. A blog post is as toothless as a facebook post, so I'll action to words.

For the next month I'm embarking on an experiment, starting on 11/17 and running through 12/17. I'll be keeping a record of American and foreign news services, looking carefully at the differences between headline stories and the representation of events from different perspectives. I'll post more details as that project continues.

I've also chosen to volunteer for the [International Rescue Committee](www.rescue.org) in Seattle. I was born at the intersection of White and Privilege, and using my position to help people coming to this country seems fitting and, moreover, the right kind of patriotism for me.

I'm done being outraged for the sake of being seen to be outraged.